# PRC2-AgeIndex Example

### This example of the PRC2-AgeIndex recreates Figure 6b of the manuscript. 

To run this example,  clone the “PRC2AgeIndex_User_Friendly_Example” folder and follow “Neo_Fibro_ExampleLMR.ipynb” to download NEO.meth.p2.bw p5, p8, as well as NEO.hmr from GSE253985, to “data/meth/NeoFib” folder. Two public PRC2 ChIP bw files also need to be downloaded to the data/chip folder, the commands to do so are also provided in the script. After which, the script will generate neonatal LMRs ordered by PRC2 binding, as well as PRC2-AgeIndex plots. This demo typically takes 10-15 mins to run (including downloading required data files). 

This PRC2-AgeIndex example take place after generation of bigwig files from methylation count data and finding low methylated regions (LMRs) in a given tissue.  See "PRC2-AgeIndex_Manuscript_Figures/WGBS_Mapping.sh" to see generation of methylation bigwig files from DNMTools/Abismal mapped data. Alternatively, bedgraph files generated by bismark (specifically bismark2bedGraph) can be converted to bigwig files with ucsc_tools:

_bedGraphToBigWig $bedfile $chromosome_sizes ${out}.bw_

In addition, LMRs of a given tissue are required for the PRC2-AgeIndex. See “PRC2-AgeIndex_Manuscript_Figures/LMR_generation_DNMTools.sh” to generate LMRs after Abismal/DNMTools processing of mapped samples. 

To run for other tissues (see PRC2-AgeIndex_Manuscript_Figures/results), download and move to meth folders, adjust names and run code in similar manner to the Neo example presented here (t.csv for T-cell LMRs has already been placed in the example folder if the user has T-cell data they wish to check with the PRC2-AgeIndex). 
